The ratio of winning bids to submitted bids for a top tenderer is a low outlier (R025)
======================================================================================

Methodology
-----------

For each tenderer, the **ratio** is calculated as :math:`numberOfWinningBids \over numberOfValidBids` across all contracting processes.

A tenderer is flagged if:

-  Its number of valid bids is greater than the **upper fence** of the third quartile (:math:`Q_3`) of the set of numbers of valid bids.
-  Its ratio is less than the **lower fence** of :math:`Q_1 - 1.5(IQR)`, where :math:`Q_1` is the first quartile and :math:`IQR` is the interquartile range for the set of ratios.

.. admonition:: Example
   :class: seealso

   75% (:math:`Q_3`) of bidders in Atlantis submitted at most 100 bids. UnethicalBid Ltd. submitted 150 bids. This is greater than the upper fence of 100. Therefore, UnethicalBid Ltd. is a top tenderer.

   25% (:math:`Q_1`) of bidders in Atlantis win at most half (``0.5``) of their bids. 75% (:math:`Q_3`) of bidders win at most three quarters (``0.75``) of their bids. This yields a lower fence of one eighth (``0.125``).

   UnethicalBid Ltd. won 15 of its 150 bids, or one tenth (``0.1``). This is less than the lower fence of one eighth. Therefore, UnethicalBid Ltd. is flagged.

.. admonition:: Why is this a red flag?
   :class: hint

   A colluding bidder can mimic competition by submitting deliberately losing bids (at inflated bid prices, for example) in contracting processes in which a colluding partner participates.

Output
------

The indicator’s value is the **ratio**, as a decimal.

Configuration
-------------

To configure the **upper fence**, add to your settings file, as a percentage:

.. code:: ini

   [R025]
   percentile = 75 # default

To configure the **lower fence**, add to your settings file, as a decimal:

.. code:: ini

   [R025]
   threshold = 0.05

Exclusions
----------

A contracting process is excluded if:

-  An award’s status is pending or invalid.
-  There are multiple active awards (a.k.a. winning bids). `#14 <https://github.com/open-contracting/cardinal-rs/issues/14>`__
-  A bid is submitted by multiple tenderers. `#17 <https://github.com/open-contracting/cardinal-rs/issues/17>`__
-  An award is made to multiple suppliers. `#17 <https://github.com/open-contracting/cardinal-rs/issues/17>`__
